pages/jobs.mdx, before:

import Layout from "../components/layout";

export const meta = {
  title: "Jobs",
  author: "Daniel Roy Greenfeld",
};

# Jobs

These are employers who I can confirm are good to work for, who take care of their people. They are lead by people with a strong sense of ethics and try to do good for the world.

- [Octopus Energy](https://octopusenergy.com/careers)<br />This is my company, providing renewable energy and fighting against climate change. How awesome is that? We do Python on the backend, React on the frontend, and host on AWS. If you aren't in [Houston](https://jobs.lever.co/octoenergy?location=Houston%2C%20TX), we have positions in [California, Oregon, and Washington state](https://jobs.lever.co/octoenergy?location=California%20%2F%20Oregon%20%2F%20Washington). We have even more jobs all over the [Earth](https://octopus.energy/kraken-tech-careers/).
- [Six Feet Up](https://sixfeetup.com/company/careers)<br />I appreciate the pledge they make to treat staff in a humane way and use their talents to help the world. Based in Indiana, USA.
- [Lab Codes](https://labcodes.com.br/careers)<br />Another consultancy who does right by their people and does no harm to the world. Based in Recife, Brazil.

export default ({ children }) => <Layout meta={meta}>{children}</Layout>;

Commit message:

New jobs links for OE

pages/jobs.mdx, after:

import Layout from "../components/layout";

export const meta = {
  title: "Jobs",
  author: "Daniel Roy Greenfeld",
};

# Jobs

These are employers who I can confirm are good to work for, who take care of their people. They are lead by people with a strong sense of ethics and try to do good for the world.

- [Octopus Energy](https://octopusenergy.com/careers)<br />This is my company, providing renewable energy and fighting against climate change. How awesome is that? We do Python on the backend, React on the frontend, and host on AWS. We have positions open all over the planet:

  - [🇦🇺 Australia](https://jobs.lever.co/octoenergy?department=Octopus%20Energy%20Australia%20%F0%9F%87%A6%F0%9F%87%BA)
  - [🇩🇪 Germany](https://www.octopusenergy.de/karriere)
  - [🇫🇷 France](https://jobs.lever.co/octoenergy?location=Paris%2C%20FR)
  - [🇮🇹 Italy](https://jobs.lever.co/octoenergy?location=Milan%2C%20IT)
  - [🇯🇵 Japan](https://jobs.lever.co/octoenergy?department=Kraken%20Technologies%20Japan%20%2F%20%E5%8B%A4%E5%8B%99%E5%9C%B0%EF%BC%9A%E6%9D%B1%E4%BA%AC%20%20%F0%9F%87%AF%F0%9F%87%B5)
  - [🇳🇿 New Zealand](https://jobs.lever.co/octoenergy?department=Octopus%20Energy%20New%20Zealand%20%F0%9F%87%B3%F0%9F%87%BF)
  - [🇪🇸 Spain](https://jobs.lever.co/octoenergy?department=Octopus%20Energy%20Spain%20%F0%9F%87%AA%F0%9F%87%B8)
  - [🇬🇧 UK](https://octopus.energy/kraken-tech-careers/)
  - [🇺🇸 USA (mostly in Houston, TX)](https://octopusenergy.com/careers)

- [Six Feet Up](https://sixfeetup.com/company/careers)<br />I appreciate the pledge they make to treat staff in a humane way and use their talents to help the world. Based in Indiana, USA.
- [Lab Codes](https://labcodes.com.br/careers)<br />Another consultancy who does right by their people and does no harm to the world. Based in Recife, Brazil.

export default ({ children }) => <Layout meta={meta}>{children}</Layout>;
