---
date: '2007-11-07T06:05:00.000-08:00'
description: ''
published: true
slug: 2007-11-zpug-dc-report-20071107
tags:
- zpug
- django
- plone
- xml
- zope
- legacy
time_to_read: 5
title: ZPUG-DC Report 2007/11/07
---

Got a good presentation on repose.zope2 by Chris McConnough, which lets you deploy easily in virtualenv with just a few commands.  Paste is used a lot, of course.  This repose thing lets you use WSGI, which means you can use middleware of choice.  Chris shared evalerrer with us, which promises to be a great middleware for any developer.<br /><br />I like this sort of development because the easier it is to install independent versions of things with variations quickly and without a lot of fuss.  So you can try new things, discover you don't like them, and try something else.  And you don't need to know a lot to make this work.<br /><br />Sure, knowing the stuff about how it works is important, but this serves as a nice tool for understanding why.  It lowers the barrier for entry, which in the Zope (and Plone) world is important.<br /><br />Afterwards had great discussions with ZPUG at some bar in DC.  Talked to Paul Everitt, Matt Bowen, Chris McConnough, Kapil, and some others.  I was very sleepy so I was not as sharp as I can be, but I learned some interesting things.<br /><br />Kapil agreed with a growing suspicion I have about Grok. I'll post about that in the future.  Its mostly positive but it does have a couple critiques.<br /><br />Kapil reinforced my feelings about Pylons vs Django. Another item for a future post.