---
date: '2009-04-03T16:24:00.002-07:00'
description: ''
published: true
slug: 2009-04-what-i-would-change-in-plone-templates
tags:
- rant
- django
- plone
- zope
- legacy-blogger
time_to_read: 5
title: 'What I would change in Plone: Templates'
---

These are my thoughts. My thoughts are not those of the luminaries in any community, but just your average Joe Developer. I formed these thoughts over <a href="http://us.pycon.org/2009">Pycon 2009</a>, and my experiences with <a href="http://plone.org">Plone</a>, <a href="http://zope.org">Zope</a> over 2 odd years and <a href="http://djangoproject.com">Django</a> over the past 4-5 months. A lot of this is therefore inspired by my recent experiences with Django.<br /><br /><span style="font-weight: bold;">Item #1 - Plone/Zope needs Django Templates out of the box</span><br /><br />You heard me.<br /><br />I like the Template Attribute Language (TAL). TAL is stupid. Stupid in that it is very hard to encrypt my templates with business logic. I like this because I recognize I have no discipline when it comes to breaking the Model-View-Controller paradigm if a framework lets me. I also like TAL because it lets me create XML type documents very easily.<br /><br />I like the Django Template Language (DTL). DTL is stupid. Stupid in that it is very hard to encrypt my templates with business logic. I like this because I recognize I have no discipline when it comes to breaking the Model-View-Controller paradigm if a framework lets me. I also like DTL because it lets me create non-XML type documents very easily.<br /><br />I like both languages. Some people do not. Advocates of one template system style say very snarky things about the other template system style. Inevitably it comes down to that one is XML focused and the other is not. And from their point of view, they are completely right.<br /><br />So I think that a version of DTL should be ported to the Plone/Zope world. And for Plone, it should be made readily available out of the box. This port should do all the default DTL filters and as many of the default tags as possible.<br /><br />Which would I use? I would use either. More importantly, people who love XML based templates could use what they want and people who hate XML based templates could use what they want.<br /><br />Everybody wins.<br /><br /><span style="font-weight: bold;">Item #2 - Plone TAL documentation needs a cheat sheet of the good functions</span><br /><br />For Django, I can go to the <a href="http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/templates/builtins/">DTL tag/filter page</a> and find a handy reference on all the tags and filters available out of the box with Django.<br /><br />Where is the same with Plone? The documentation has gotten really <span style="font-weight: bold;">freaking</span> good, but where is this sort of handy developer reference?<br /><br />Yes, I have learned that you can use string methods on strings, and that there are various utility methods you can call if you know the name of the right portal object, but these are not in one easy-to-find location.<br /><br />We Joe Developers need and love this sort of thing.