posts/2022-02-speaking-at-python-web-conf.md, before:

---
date: "2022-02-10T22:20:50.52Z"
published: true
tags:
  - python
  - django
  - talk
time_to_read: 2
title: Speaking at Python Web Conf
description: My first public conference talk in three years
---

During the week of March 21-25 at [Python Web Conf](https://2022.pythonwebconf.com) I'm giving my first public conference talk in three years. I'm both excited and apprehensive about returning to the speaker's podium.

To me, public speaking is like a roller coaster ride. The climb up the first hill (or minute when it comes to speaking) is absolutely terrifying. Then as soon as the car accelerates (or I begin to speak), endorphins kick in. I go from struggling not to visibly tremble from fear to shaking with excitement.

[![](/images/PWC2022-daniel-roy-greenfeld.png)](https://2022.pythonwebconf.com/presentations/confessions-of-joe-developer)

The talk I'm going to give is titled, "Confessions of Joe Developer". Here's the synoposis: 

> Over the course of 17 years of professional Python development at Octopus Energy, NASA, and various agencies, Daniel Roy Greenfeld has picked up a lot of easy tricks stolen from the best and brightest in the software community that make him look good in front of his peers and colleagues. And now, at great risk to his career and reputation, he is going to show you how he does it.

What that description doesn't tell you is that I came up with the core concepts of that talk in the middle of my interviews to work at [NASA](https://www.nasa.gov/) at the end of 2004. I didn't think it was at all possible to get hired by the agency, so went in with the assumption I wouldn't get the job. Since a job wasn't on the line that meant the interviews were stress fee. And in the middle of it all I decided to try a few unusual tactics. 

Those tactics worked and I got hired. Not only that, but one [pithy phrase](https://www.vocabulary.com/dictionary/pithy) in particular I uttered during the interview became the backbone of my coding and working style.

[My talk](https://2022.pythonwebconf.com/presentations/confessions-of-joe-developer) is about what I said, what it means, how I applied it, and how you can use it.

See you at [Python Web Conf](https://2022.pythonwebconf.com)!

[![](/images/2022.pythonwebconf.png)](https://2022.pythonwebconf.com)

Commit message:

Add mention of Python and Django

posts/2022-02-speaking-at-python-web-conf.md, after:

---
date: "2022-02-10T22:20:50.52Z"
published: true
tags:
  - python
  - django
  - talk
time_to_read: 2
title: Speaking at Python Web Conf
description: My first public conference talk in three years
---

During the week of March 21-25 at [Python Web Conf](https://2022.pythonwebconf.com) I'm giving my first public conference talk in three years. I'm both excited and apprehensive about returning to the speaker's podium.

To me, public speaking is like a roller coaster ride. The climb up the first hill (or minute when it comes to speaking) is absolutely terrifying. Then as soon as the car accelerates (or I begin to speak), endorphins kick in. I go from struggling not to visibly tremble from fear to shaking with excitement.

[![](/images/PWC2022-daniel-roy-greenfeld.png)](https://2022.pythonwebconf.com/presentations/confessions-of-joe-developer)

The talk I'm going to give is titled, "Confessions of Joe Developer". Here's the synoposis: 

> Over the course of 17 years of professional Python development at Octopus Energy, NASA, and various agencies, Daniel Roy Greenfeld has picked up a lot of easy tricks stolen from the best and brightest in the software community that make him look good in front of his peers and colleagues. And now, at great risk to his career and reputation, he is going to show you how he does it.

What that description doesn't tell you is that I came up with the core concepts of that talk in the middle of my interviews to work at [NASA](https://www.nasa.gov/) at the end of 2004. I didn't think it was at all possible to get hired by the agency, so went in with the assumption I wouldn't get the job. Since a job wasn't on the line that meant the interviews were stress fee. And in the middle of it all I decided to try a few unusual tactics. 

Those tactics worked and I got hired. Not only that, but one [pithy phrase](https://www.vocabulary.com/dictionary/pithy) in particular I uttered during the interview became the backbone of my coding and working style.

It was at NASA that I learned Python and started with Django. All because of that phrase. How cool is that?

[My talk](https://2022.pythonwebconf.com/presentations/confessions-of-joe-developer) is about what I said, what it means, how I applied it, and how you can use it.

See you at [Python Web Conf](https://2022.pythonwebconf.com)!

[![](/images/2022.pythonwebconf.png)](https://2022.pythonwebconf.com)
