posts/code-code-code.md, before:

---
date: "2016-05-28"
published: true
slug: code-code-code
tags:
  - django
  - python
time_to_read: 3
title: Code, Code, Code
description: I'm often asked by new programmers how they can forge a path into using their skills professionally. Or how they can get better at writing software.
---

# How to Improve Your Coding Skills

This was my path. It may not be your path. This path also isn't in any
particular order, all of them apply from the moment you start on the
path.

1.  I coded. A lot. From silly little scripts to automating tasks to
    attempting full-blown projects. At work or for fun. I failed a lot,
    but learned along the way.
2.  I didn't jump from language to language. Instead I stayed in a few
    places for years and focused my learning on those tools. My 19+ year
    career can be summed up as FoxPro then Java then Python. In the
    middle of things I picked up JavaScript. Sure, I've dallied with a
    few things (Lisp, Haskell, Lua, Perl, ColdFusion, Go), but by
    staying focused on a small set of tools I'm better than mediocre.
3.  I coded lots. Yes, this is a repeat of #1.
4.  Once I got the basics of a language, I looked up best practices for
    each of them. Then I religiously adhered to them, even becoming
    dogmatic about it. In general this means my code is more easily
    read. More easily debugged. And most importantly, more easily
    shared.
5.  Did I mention that I coded a lot? You can never get good at anything
    unless you practice. Another repeat of #1.
6.  I got over my fear/pride of asking questions. Well, mostly, I still
    am afraid/prideful from time to time. Honestly, by asking questions
    you aren't showing what you don't know, you are showing you are
    willing to learn. Also, the simple act of figuring out how to ask a
    question can put you in the right mindset to determine the answer
    yourself.
7.  As soon as I asked a question, whether or not I got an answer, I
    coded some more. Code, code, code! Yet another repeat of #1
8.  Once I've gotten the hang of a language, I looked for cookbooks
    and/or pocket references on it. I prefer paper copies of tech books
    (everything else I read is electronic). The recipes in cookbooks
    become the foundation of my toolkit. The terse, easy-to-find
    reminders in the pocket reference mean less cognitive overload.
9.  I took those recipes and references and coded with them. Again and
    again I coded. In work hours or play time. Practice makes perfect!
    Why do I keep repeating #1?
10. Over the years I've stayed with the easiest-to-learn stable
    IDEs/text editors. Yes, I know there are really powerful tools with
    arcane commands (Vim, EMACS, etc), but I don't want to have to stop
    what I'm doing to learn new tools. I want to code, not tinker with
    desktop tools or arcane text editors.
11. And again, reference back to #1, I use the text editor to write
    code. Code, code, code! Until my fingers and hands hurt, until I've
    had to learn how to deal with carpal tunnel syndrome. Code, code,
    code! It's like learning martial arts, guitar, or anything,
    repetition of simple actions provides the confidence for you to
    either combine those actions into something greater or learn
    something more complex.

# What I Wish I Had Done

- Studied computer science. If I could do it all over again, that
  would have been the focus of my academic studies. It wouldn't
  replace anything on my list, the path I've defined remains the
  same. Code, code, code!
- It goes without saying I should have taken more tutorials. Nothing
  gives a kickstart like having an instructor, online or in-person,
  who guides you down the right path. Then you can code, code, code!

Practice makes perfect, right?

[![Code, Code, Code](/images/code-code-code.png)](/code-code-code.html)

Commit message:

Add image and revise description

posts/code-code-code.md, after:

---
date: "2016-05-28"
published: true
slug: code-code-code
tags:
  - django
  - python
time_to_read: 3
title: Code, Code, Code
image: /images/code-code-code.png
description: I'm often asked by new programmers how they can forge a path into using their skills professionally. Or how they can get better at writing software. In this article I share the secret master-level method to improvement.
---

# How to Improve Your Coding Skills

This was my path. It may not be your path. This path also isn't in any
particular order, all of them apply from the moment you start on the
path.

1.  I coded. A lot. From silly little scripts to automating tasks to
    attempting full-blown projects. At work or for fun. I failed a lot,
    but learned along the way.
2.  I didn't jump from language to language. Instead I stayed in a few
    places for years and focused my learning on those tools. My 19+ year
    career can be summed up as FoxPro then Java then Python. In the
    middle of things I picked up JavaScript. Sure, I've dallied with a
    few things (Lisp, Haskell, Lua, Perl, ColdFusion, Go), but by
    staying focused on a small set of tools I'm better than mediocre.
3.  I coded lots. Yes, this is a repeat of #1.
4.  Once I got the basics of a language, I looked up best practices for
    each of them. Then I religiously adhered to them, even becoming
    dogmatic about it. In general this means my code is more easily
    read. More easily debugged. And most importantly, more easily
    shared.
5.  Did I mention that I coded a lot? You can never get good at anything
    unless you practice. Another repeat of #1.
6.  I got over my fear/pride of asking questions. Well, mostly, I still
    am afraid/prideful from time to time. Honestly, by asking questions
    you aren't showing what you don't know, you are showing you are
    willing to learn. Also, the simple act of figuring out how to ask a
    question can put you in the right mindset to determine the answer
    yourself.
7.  As soon as I asked a question, whether or not I got an answer, I
    coded some more. Code, code, code! Yet another repeat of #1
8.  Once I've gotten the hang of a language, I looked for cookbooks
    and/or pocket references on it. I prefer paper copies of tech books
    (everything else I read is electronic). The recipes in cookbooks
    become the foundation of my toolkit. The terse, easy-to-find
    reminders in the pocket reference mean less cognitive overload.
9.  I took those recipes and references and coded with them. Again and
    again I coded. In work hours or play time. Practice makes perfect!
    Why do I keep repeating #1?
10. Over the years I've stayed with the easiest-to-learn stable
    IDEs/text editors. Yes, I know there are really powerful tools with
    arcane commands (Vim, EMACS, etc), but I don't want to have to stop
    what I'm doing to learn new tools. I want to code, not tinker with
    desktop tools or arcane text editors.
11. And again, reference back to #1, I use the text editor to write
    code. Code, code, code! Until my fingers and hands hurt, until I've
    had to learn how to deal with carpal tunnel syndrome. Code, code,
    code! It's like learning martial arts, guitar, or anything,
    repetition of simple actions provides the confidence for you to
    either combine those actions into something greater or learn
    something more complex.

# What I Wish I Had Done

- Studied computer science. If I could do it all over again, that
  would have been the focus of my academic studies. It wouldn't
  replace anything on my list, the path I've defined remains the
  same. Code, code, code!
- It goes without saying I should have taken more tutorials. Nothing
  gives a kickstart like having an instructor, online or in-person,
  who guides you down the right path. Then you can code, code, code!

Practice makes perfect, right?

[![Code, Code, Code](/images/code-code-code.png)](/code-code-code.html)
