posts/why-i-work-at-octopus-energy-part-1.md, before:

---
date: "2021-06-07"
published: true
slug: why-i-work-at-octopus-energy
tags:
  - python
  - django
  - octopus
  - climate-change
time_to_read: 5
title: Why I Work at Octopus Energy
---

On November 16, 2020, I started my first day of employment at [Octopus Energy](https://octopusenergy.com/). Here's why I work there.

## The Tech Stack

The entire tech stack is built on things I know. Python, Django, AWS, and modern JavaScript frameworks. It's been implemented in a very solid way, managing to be both conservative in approach yet innovative in design. While my previous experience has proven useful, I've had the chance to learn new and exciting things. Examples of things I've learned:

- [Hashistack on AWS](https://www.hashicorp.com/integrations/aws)
- React & Next

Yet when I think about it, the tech stack isn't the reason I love working for Octopus. I can find the same tech stack in a thousand other organizations.

## The People

It's always a delight to work with bright, positive-minded people who share your excitement for a job or cause. I like being around people who know things I do not, for no other reason than I can learn by osmosis. I enjoy being around them, and can't wait to meet them as the pandemic fades away.

I also am amazed by the same treatment across different groups within the organization. No group or division is looked down on, be they software engineering, customer support, marketing, or executive leadership. We're all considered humans, not resources to be expended.

Yet when I think about it, the people aren't the reason I love working for Octopus. I can find good people in a million other places.

## The Diversity

Speaking of people, Octopus Energy is a diversity minded company. In my team alone, we have people from four different continents with five different native languages. We can admittedly do better on the gender front, and are striving to do better on that front. For many reasons this is important to me, for I believe it's not only the right thing to do, it also increases a team's strength to have a broader set of viewpoints.

Yet when I think about it, the focus on diversity isn't the reason I love working for Octopus. Diversity-focused companies are not uncommon, and some have better numbers than Octopus.

## The Business

Octopus Energy is a fast growing company spreading its tentacles to new markets and nations. In the months and years to come we're going to disrupt the energy business. In the meantime, in the brief 8 months I've been with the firm the valuation has doubled up to 3 billion dollars. It's exciting to be part of something growing explosively.

Yet when I think about it, the business isn't the reason I work for Octopus. I can think of other companies with this kind of explosive growth, some of whom I interviewed at when Octopus reached out to me.

## The Answer

TODO link to second post

Commit message:

Lots of changes
1. Added a footer to all pages that links to a feed
2. Added descriptions to index
3. Cleaned up descriptions

posts/why-i-work-at-octopus-energy-part-1.md, after:

---
date: "2021-06-07T22:20:50.52Z"
published: true
slug: why-i-work-at-octopus-energy
tags:
  - python
  - django
  - octopus
  - climate-change
time_to_read: 5
title: Why I Work at Octopus Energy
description: I explain the reasons that aren't why I work at Octopus Energy.
---

On November 16, 2020, I started my first day of employment at [Octopus Energy](https://octopusenergy.com/). Here's why I work there.

## The Tech Stack

The entire tech stack is built on things I know. Python, Django, AWS, and modern JavaScript frameworks. It's been implemented in a very solid way, managing to be both conservative in approach yet innovative in design. While my previous experience has proven useful, I've had the chance to learn new and exciting things. Examples of things I've learned:

- Hashistack on AWS
- React & Next.js

Yet when I think about it, the tech stack isn't the reason I love working for Octopus. I can find the same tech stack in a thousand other organizations.

## The People

It's always a delight to work with bright, positive-minded people who share your excitement for a job or cause. I like being around people who know things I do not, for no other reason than I can learn by osmosis. I enjoy being around them, and can't wait to meet them as the pandemic fades away.

I also am amazed by the same treatment across different groups within the organization. No group or division is looked down on, be they software engineering, customer support, marketing, or executive leadership. We're all considered humans, not resources to be expended.

Yet when I think about it, the people aren't the reason I love working for Octopus. I can find good people in a million other places.

## The Diversity

Speaking of people, Octopus Energy is a diversity minded company. In my team alone, we have people from four different continents with five different native languages. We can admittedly do better on the gender front, and are striving to do better on that front. For many reasons this is important to me, for I believe it's not only the right thing to do, it also increases a team's strength to have a broader set of viewpoints.

Yet when I think about it, the focus on diversity isn't the reason I love working for Octopus. Diversity-focused companies are not uncommon, and some have better numbers than Octopus.

## The Business

Octopus Energy is a fast growing company spreading its tentacles to new markets and nations. In the months and years to come we're going to disrupt the energy business. In the meantime, in the brief 8 months I've been with the firm the valuation has doubled up to 3 billion dollars. It's exciting to be part of something growing explosively.

Yet when I think about it, the business isn't the reason I work for Octopus. I can think of other companies with this kind of explosive growth, some of whom I interviewed at when Octopus reached out to me.

## Why do I work for Octopus Energy?

The answer is forthcoming in an article I'll be releasing on Thursday, June 10th. Stay tuned!
